[MUSIC PLAYING]
[AUDIO LOGO]
[THEME MUSIC]
>>EMERY SMITH: Today,
on Cosmic Disclosure,
we are with Richard Doty,
a retired Special Agent who
served in the Air Force Office
of Special Investigations.
Richard was intimately
involved with UFO
ET-related intelligence.
Today, we are discussing
Operation Brother's Keeper.
Richard, welcome to the show.
>>RICHARD C. DOTY: Thank
you, Emery, good to be here.
>>EMERY: So, what is
Operation Brother's Keeper?
>>DOTY: Operation
Brother's Keeper
is a military operation where we
assisted the country of Brazil
in 1978.
Go back a little bit,
early part of December,
all the way to the
end of December 1977,
an incident happened,
or a series of incidents
happened, in a location
called Colares in Brazil.
People or villagers observed a
craft flying around in the sky,
shooting some type of a
beam down at the ground.
Sometimes, these beams
would hit people,
causing excruciating pain
and blistering of the skin.
And this went on for days
after days after days.
The Brazilian military
responded, trying
to shoot down these things.
They were identified
as saucer shaped,
so the Brazilian
government immediately
thought that these were
extraterrestrial crafts flying
around this area of Colares--
and why they were doing
what they were doing,
which was trying to hurt
the people on the ground.
In over a period of several
days, a number of people
were injured and taken
to local hospitals.
Doctors at the hospitals
would examine these wounds
and figured out they were
some sort of a radiation.
>>EMERY: Oh, no.
>>DOTY: They had to figure
out what was going on.
Why was this craft flying
around, doing these things?
After a number of
people were injured,
Brazilian military, the Army and
the Air Force, were involved.
They wanted additional help.
So they asked the
United States government
to come in to assist them.
So in January of 1978,
the Air Force Office
of Special Investigations
support unit at Brasilia
and another unit in Argentina
responded to Colares
to investigate this incident.
And we started
interrogating people,
interviewing people,
trying to find
evidence of what had occurred.
Now, this is after
the fact, of course,
and we found some evidence
of some small particle that
was found in one particular area
where these beams being shot
down from this craft hit and hit
this hard rock area, like shale.
And these small pieces had
embedded into this rock.
And so now we have
evidence of something.
So OSI took this material
because the villagers
told OSI agents where these
beams were hitting the ground,
and they packaged it up and sent
it off to a lab to be analyzed.
They also were able to
get medical records,
and the United States government
brought in an embassy doctor
from Brasilia, the US embassy,
to examine some of these people
and try to determine what these
injuries were caused by, whether
it was, in fact, a radiation
burn, a laser burn,
because, even in the '70s, we
had lasers, or something else.
And what they found out
was that they don't know.
They weren't laser burns.
They were similar
to radiation burns,
but there was no radiation
found inside the wound
or inside the victim's body.
>>EMERY: So they have
the burns, but there's
no radioactive isotopes
that they could find.
>>DOTY: Exactly,
nothing indicating
that ionized radiation,
which would have caused
these burns because ionized
radiation, either alpha, beta,
or gamma, could have
caused these burns.
They couldn't find any evidence
or any remnants or materials
indicating that
this was radiation.
>>EMERY: Do if those
patients later on still
survived or died of
any weird cancers?
>>DOTY: Some passed
away from other reasons.
There was a set of people, and
I don't recall exactly how many
but probably five or six people,
that all died from liver failure
some years later.
And I don't know if they
died because of this.
Every one of those
were subjected
to some sort of a laser burn
or some burn on their bodies.
When we talked to these victims,
asking them what they saw,
what they felt, what they
experienced, some of them
said we were walking
down the street.
We were walking in our field.
We were planting crops.
I'm at work.
And these beams came down
from the sky, and they hit us.
And most of the injuries were
either to the face, hands,
or the thoracic area--
>>EMERY: The
exposed areas, yeah.
>>DOTY: Exposed
area of the chest.
They don't know what
they were at first.
Some of the victims said,
we saw these creatures.
They not only are shooting
from an aircraft or UFO.
They came down to the
ground, and they got out.
And they chased us,
hideous-looking devils.
They called them devils.
And in Portuguese, they
named it "Chupa-Chupa"
or sucker or suckers.
Some of these creatures
that came out of this craft
actually grabbed victims,
attached to their skin,
and started sucking.
And that's why they called them
in Portuguese Chupa-Chupa, which
is sucker-sucker.
>>EMERY: What do they look like?
How big were these creatures?
>>DOTY: They were
5 to 6 foot tall.
They had hideous-looking faces.
And the only thing that we
could get from the people
were, they were devils.
Because, as you know, if a
human brain can't establish fact
from what it's
looking at, they're
going to relate to something
they already knew about.
And these people
knew of the Devil
because they were
highly religious people.
They're all Roman Catholics.
And so all they would tell
us was that they were devils.
They looked like devils
with sucking mouths.
They looked like devils.
This is 1977.
We couldn't give
them pictures which
would taint their recollection.
And all we could do was ask them
to explain or draw pictures.
And they did.
They drew some pictures
of what they observed
and what these
creatures looked like.
>>EMERY: Ah, amazing.
Amazing.
What about the pilots?
Did you interview the pilots?
What did they say?
>>DOTY: The Air Force pilots
saw these crafts flying.
They could never
get close enough
to get a full
identification on the craft.
They knew they weren't
conventional crafts.
One particular Brazilian
pilot said, well,
I could tell you right now that
it wasn't any kind of crafts
I've ever seen.
He'd been a pilot for 15 years.
He actually was trained
in the United States,
so he knew different aircrafts.
He said, we have mirages, and
we have these other aircrafts.
We know what an
aircraft looks like.
These things weren't like
anything we've ever seen,
and we could never
catch up to it.
As we got closer,
it would speed away,
or would quickly
change directions.
As we're flying towards it, it
would stop and change directions
over top of us, so we can never
fully identify the crafts.
But he said they
were flying saucers.
They were saucer shaped.
>>EMERY: In relation to the
Varginha sighting in the 1990s
in Brazil, where people saw
these beings that were red.
And they were saying
they were demons
and Satan and all this stuff.
Is there any correlation
to this one, where people
are saying the same thing?
>>DOTY: There's a lot of
similarities between the Colares
and the Varginha sighting.
The identification of these
creatures are somewhat similar.
The beams that were shot at
these people, they're similar.
But there's some similarities,
and there's some aren't.
So if we just stick
with the similarities,
this incident in 1977 and
a Varginha incident later
on in the 1990s could
be the same species
of extraterrestrials.
>>EMERY: Wow.
So what evidence did OSI find
with the Colares incident?
>>DOTY: Well, they found a lot.
The examination of the victims,
number one, medical doctors
examined them, took tissue
samples, blood samples,
X-rays from the victims.
The OSI investigation
involved 17
of the victims, where they took
blood and X-rays and so forth
from them, and skin samples.
OSI then went to doctors that
examined these victims, trying
to get anything that these
doctors had taken as evidence
and kept for analysis.
The doctors that were with OSI
wanted blood samples from right
after this incident
happened, not a month later,
when OSI was there in January.
There were a lot of samples
kept by these doctors,
and they gave them
to OSI to be analyzed
or sent off to be analyzed.
Everything went back
to the United States,
and everything went to the Armed
forces Institute of Pathology
in Washington, DC.
That's where all the medical
samples were analyzed.
The samples were taken,
as I said earlier,
from whatever material
that was hitting the rocks
and maintained there.
There's particles of
some kind of metal.
That was sent to
another laboratory
at Utah, Dugway
Proving Grounds, which
has probably the best
metallurgical facility
in the world.
And so they went back
there to try to figure out
what these things were.
At scene, the OSI interviewed
the doctors, getting statements
from them, interviewed
the military people that
were on scene.
One of the doctors
that had examined,
he examined most and
treated most of the victims.
He died mysteriously later.
The captain that was in
charge of the investigation,
he committed suicide
a few months later.
Two of the people that had
face-to-face experiences
with these creatures
committed suicide.
They went crazy prior
to committing suicide.
So something happened, whether
it was a psychological effect
or some other effect
on these people
that caused them to commit
suicide, which you really
have to delve deep into
understanding this.
It's trying to figure
out, what did they see
or what did they experience
that was so horrifying that they
would commit suicide?
Is it something that
was remnants of--
that still inside their head?
>>EMERY: Yeah, implanted
something, some memories or--
>>DOTY: I don't know.
>>EMERY: Or just the experience
itself was so overwhelming.
>>DOTY: So traumatic--
this experience
was probably so traumatic.
One of the statements made
by a physician that survived
said, if you experienced what
we experienced, the trauma that
was placed on this
community and maybe
the possibility that
this could happen again,
that you don't want
to be a part of it,
if you were
psychologically unstable,
that might lead you
to committing suicide
to prevent yourself from ever
being involved in something
like this again.
>>EMERY: Were there
nonhuman intelligences that
were involved?
What could you
tell us about that?
>>DOTY: One of the
witnesses told OSI agents
that it was something
like a robot,
and he referred to
it as a robot that he
saw at one of these
landing sites,
where this craft had landed.
And these creatures got
out that look-- that they
were referring to as devils.
He said it wasn't on the ground.
It was more or less in
the air, moving around.
Back in those days, drones
weren't really in a circle--
>>EMERY: No.
>>DOTY: --balloons or model
airplanes that you could fly.
And OSI agents were
asking, it could
have been a model airplane.
I mean, you could fly
these model airplanes.
He had never seen or heard--
>>EMERY: Yeah, what is that?
>>DOTY: He didn't
know what they were.
But the only thing he
could refer to is a robot.
So maybe there was
some other form
of nonhuman life or
nonbiological life
forms, robotic forms that
were involved in this.
But really, we don't have any
other evidence other than what
other people have said,
statements taken from witnesses.
>>EMERY: I have heard
reports about citizens
missing after this incursion.
What can you tell us about that?
>>DOTY: Yeah, there were a
number of people that went
missing, and I don't know--
>>EMERY: How many?
>>DOTY: Eight confirmed
that we're missing.
>>EMERY: Was it during the
event or after the event?
>>DOTY: After the event,
witnesses or police or family
members went to the
residence of these people.
And they were gone.
Now, were they abducted?
Did they just flee
and never came back?
We don't know, but
they're missing.
And they were missing--
the police took
reports of missing.
And to the best of my knowledge,
they've never been found.
>>EMERY: Wow.
Other than the radiation
burns, were there
any other injuries of any kind?
>>DOTY: Well, the liver problems
that people died of later,
and they don't know why.
Whether it was connected or not
connected, they don't know why.
>>EMERY: That's a hard call.
>>DOTY: And maybe the
psychological trauma
or something that happened
in their brain that causes
people to commit suicide.
That's it.
That could have been a lasting
effect of having this encounter
with these extraterrestrials.
>>EMERY: What did the OSI
recover east of the forest?
What was that about?
>>DOTY: They found an object
that they didn't initially
connect to this incident.
>>EMERY: Oh.
>>DOTY: But later on,
because of some debris that
was found at some
other location,
they went back to that site
and recovered this object.
And they thought it was some
sort of a homing or a navigation
system that was dropped
by the extraterrestrials
to show other crafts where
to come to, they think.
And this is just a theory.
I don't know that anybody ever
actually ever verified that.
But that was the theory
that this thing-- and I'm
sure it was analyzed
later, but I
don't have the information
on what they found,
because everything we
gathered there was taken back
to the States.
>>EMERY: Was there anything
else that was revealed
medically after this testing?
>>DOTY: Well, all
the medical tests
were sent to the Armed Forces
Institute of Pathology.
And what they found there was
some of the tissue samples
and some of the blood,
the molecular structure
of skin of some of the
injured skin was changed.
And some of the blood
had something in it
that the Armed Forces Institute
couldn't determine what it was,
something strange.
But these were the victims
that suffered these wounds.
And to the best of my
knowledge, we still
haven't figured out
why or how these beams
could affect the molecular
structure of skin or tissue
or blood.
And that's what was
found at the Armed Forces
Institute of Pathology.
And I think it wasn't
every single test, but just
certain tests from
certain people.
>>EMERY: So aside
from this case, Rick,
it seems pretty violent.
This species is
attacking people.
Now, of course, in the military,
we have shot them down.
They shoot at us.
We shoot back,
that kind of thing.
But we're talking
about civilians here.
I mean, what do you make of
this attack on civilians?
>>DOTY: That's a good question.
These people are nonviolent.
They didn't threaten these
extraterrestrials in any way.
They have no weapons.
They have no guns in Brazil.
Why did they do this?
Why did these
extraterrestrials do harm
on these innocent civilians?
That's a good question.
We don't know why.
Is it because
they're so violent,
they're such a violent species
that they want to cause harm?
Or they were trying to
gather tissue samples
from these people.
And that's how they do it, by
shooting this beam into them
and extracting stuff out.
That's the only thing that
these medical professionals
could figure out because
these are innocent people.
These species come in and
start shooting at them,
and probably even
abducting some of them.
For what reason?
I guess these extraterrestrials
was just a violent species.
>>EMERY: It seems they came
there on a specific mission,
just to harvest and
go, because they
didn't shoot any craft down.
>>DOTY: No, they didn't
shoot that I know of.
They didn't shoot
any aircrafts--
>>EMERY: And they could have.
>>DOTY: And It's
very highly possible
that this species
of extraterrestrials
came here for a
scientific exploration.
And this is just
one way that they
were using to gather the
tissues of a human being,
and they didn't
realize that they
were trying to harm somebody
while they were doing it.
I guess that could be also
an answer to what happened.
>>EMERY: So what was
the final conclusion
with OSI with this event?
>>DOTY: Well, the
final conclusion
was that an extraterrestrial
species was present.
For some reason, it was
either scientifically
gathering information or
evidence from a human.
Or they were a violent species.
>>EMERY: Right.
>>DOTY: But they never shot
down an aircraft, as you said.
And they never attacked
a military installation.
And if it was a full-scale
hostile act, the only isolated
everything to this one
little community of Colares.
They didn't go beyond that.
So we would have to get in the
minds of the extraterrestrials
to figure out why they
did what they did.
>>EMERY: So have we ever seen
this species again, Rick?
>>DOTY: Possibly at Varginha.
That could have been
the same species.
I don't know as much
about that case.
OSI was there later on, and
they did do an investigation.
But that's still
highly classified.
So it could very well
been the same species.
>>EMERY: Well, Rick,
it's always a pleasure
to have you on the show.
Thanks for coming in.
>>DOTY: Thank you for having me.
>>EMERY: I'm Emery Smith, and
this is Cosmic Disclosure.
Until next time.
[THEME MUSIC]